Hello everybody and welcome back.
In this election by the end of it what we will be able to do is pick up our objects in our scene and
put them back down again elsewhere.
And this is a great opportunity to then grab something move over to the corner and they don't have any
weight yet but hopefully the doors will open and then allow us to get out.
Awesome.
Let's find out more.
Hello everybody and welcome to using physics handles so this is all about picking up our objects in
our scene and interacting with them.
Now unreal provides a physics candle that's ideal for just this task.
Well first of all going to read the documentation and get our head round how it's formed and we'll have
to go backwards and forwards a couple of times to make sure we're using the right bits of information
and then we will finally get the physics handle working so by the end as you've seen we're going to
be able to pick up our cube and cone or whatever you've substituted them with in your game.
Okay.
So I figured that one of the best places to start is with the documentation itself so we can get a handle
on how the physics handle components is going to work.
Now there is quite a bit of information here but there are very few examples of how it's to be used.
So we'll have a look down at the functions in a moment and see what we can do.
So there are lots of variables that carry on going down.
Here we go.
So our functions that we can use all that looks like a good one look you primitive component gets grabbed
component.
We may have to use that.
That's awesome.
Grab component at a location.
Sounds good to me.
Grab a component a location with a rotation so we're not going to go through all of these individually
but you can see as we go through that the names seem to be good.
And this one here looks brilliant.
I think we're going to end up using this one.
Grab a specified component release component.
I'm sure that's going to come in hand release that currently held component.
Well we need to let it go so that's going to be useful for that.
And and the cube or the cone or whatever we're interacting with we need to be able to move it along
with us.
So this is where we can set our target location.
The thing that we've grabbed to our current the line at the end of the line the line reach variable
that we've currently got the line trace and I think it's called which was the player viewpoint location
plus the player point rotation dot vector and then we multiply that by the reach that we've got there.
Okay.
Now before we get going.
A word of warning.
This is going to be a bit of a mess.
And the reason for that is we want to be able to just get our code working at the moment and then we'll
have a real good reason to refactor again and tie the everything back up.
Okay.
So over in our implementation file the first thing that I spotted just as I was eyeballing it before
I clicked record is I made a little bit of mistake in the last video.
Some of you would have rightly spotted it.
Line 55 here.
Get the physics body in reach.
So that is returning an F hit results because that is what it is but it is not being used in any way.
So the first thing I'm going to do is correct that.
So that's going to be I'm allowed to space there so I can go f hit results.
I'm going to call it Hit result for the moments as well.
I can't think of a better name for it.
There we go.
That's actually being used somewhere which is quite useful.
So we've got a couple of to dos here we've got to attach the physics handle we've got to release the
physics handle at some points and then if we go down slightly into the tic component if the physics
handle is attached.
So if there is one there then we're going to move the object that we're holding.
And that's where we can set our targets location.
Okay.
So where to start.
Often with things like this I seem to be searching for release for a moment there.
So in moments like this it's up to you where you decide to stop I think starting here where we're grabbing
that's the thing we're focused on would be a great place.
So if we hit something then attach the physics handle so attaching the physics handle I think is the
first thing we'll do here and then we'll create the if statement around it.
So if we start typing in physics handle There we go hover over it.
We use.
We will see that it is a pointer so we'll use the arrow operator.
Now the pink and purple ones that I think I've mentioned this yet is a pink or purple one then it means
it's a function.
So you know you're going to need the parentheses at the end of it and you may of course need to pass
something into those parentheses as well.
So what are we looking for here.
So if we refer back to the dots here grab component at locations sounds like the appropriate one grabbing
the specified component at a given location.
Okay.
And we can see that it's built up here of a few primitive star component.
So a pointer there we've got the F name in bone name.
Well we don't have any bones so we can just name that none and you'll see that in a moment in this grab
location see you where you set it but I'm going to set it to the origin of the object.
So we have a look over in Unreal and have a look at an anything in the scene that's just press F elevens
come out full screen mode there for a moment and we say that to the transform this white dot in the
middle that is the actor's location in the world.
So that's what we'll end up putting at the end of our reach if you remember the green line coming out.
That's what's going to connect with our actor's origin here.
Okay.
So I'm just can't just do that again so I can see what's coming along here.
So we need to grab component at location.
There we go.
We don't need the rotation of it.
So now here we open up our parentheses and we've got a primitive component f name and effector and we
don't have two of those yet.
Well we've got the effects and we've got the bone but we don't have the primitive component just there.
So what should we do.
Well I'm going to just formats my code like so so I can type these things in individually.
Now we don't have a name for this for the first thing yet so let's you're gonna put a comma in and we'll
come back to it in a moment.
Go to a new line the bone nine.
Now we're not dealing with any skeletal mesh where you typically find bones.
So in this particular case we can go name underscore and you can see it's come up there for me none
comma.
This next bit is the grab location now the grab location is going to be at the end of our line trace
that we've already got and this is the first bit where we can start to have a bit of messy code before
we tidy up.
So we've already got that right here.
This set of code is how we know where the line trace ends without having to do anything else.
We can quickly copy that and bring it up here for testing.
So I'm going to pop it just at the top here so I'm going to place it just after we log out that the
grabber has been pressed are still on that code there for the moment.
We've now got a line trace end which means here we can have the line trace and now this is what I mean
by the messy bit don't worry about it at the moment we've duplicated code but we will refactor in a
bit.
Taking all of that duplication out.
So this other bit here this first bits I'm going to have to just come backwards and forwards again.
There we go.
So this you put this component.
This is the component that would go to grab but we haven't declared it anywhere.
We'll come back to giving it a name in a moment once we've declared it and initialized it with a value.
Let's go ahead and start typing that in you primitive component obviously I've done this before so it's
up that's up the list.
It's a pointer so it's a star.
What are we going to call it.
What we're going to call it the component to grab at the moment.
Okay.
Now what are we going to initialize that with.
Well if we have a look at the hit results using the dot operator.
Now there are a couple of options here and what we want is to get the component now it is purple so
we're going to need parentheses there.
And we don't need to pass anything in so we can end that line.
So now we have something that we can put in here.
Our component I get my capitalization right component to grab.
So that is now all complete.
Apart from my semicolon at the end.
OK.
So let's talk about the if parts of this.
We're going to have to end this lot.
Just one last.
So let's say if and what's the condition here could we go hit result.
Well it's not a pointer so if hit result's not going to really make much sense.
Expression must have a bold type or convertible to a bull as you can't say if there is a hit result.
However there is a way of going getting the actor so we get actor on it's not component come back again
and say you get actor or we can see that that returns a pointer she's really useful because then we
can use this to say if an actor is hit then attach your physics handle okay.
I think that's it for this bit of our code for the moment and must save my work and have a look down
or up down.
So we've got if the physics handle is attached.
So if our physics handle now this can take a while to catch up I've noticed.
But there we go.
So if physics handle the same as up here.
There we go.
It's gone blue.
He's our alter complete going to work which is really useful.
Now there is a function in here.
This is grabbed component and over in the docks if we scroll up here.
Here we go.
Primitive component the component we are holding sir grabbed component is what we're looking for.
So we can just type in here grab the component.
Excellent.
That's what we want.
So if if we've actually grasped something then we need to go ahead and set the target location.
And once again physics handle target location sets target location fuzzy searches save me there it is
a function.
So we need our parentheses.
Now this has too few arguments at the moment.
We need to pass it an F vector.
Well once again we've got an effect that's really useful is the line trace.
And so we want the target location and we just move that up and into here to say what we're doing.
We need to target location here to be the line trace end again.
And I know this is messy but let's do it anyway so we can just test to make sure our code works.
So we've got our line trace and they're going to copy that sets of code.
I'm gonna pop it just in here on the tick component and we'll clean it up in a few moments.
Let's save that.
Now we should be able to have our line trace and here there it is perfect.
I think at the moment we're going to pick up our our boxes.
Let's let's go and find out.
Let's give myself a bit more space and compile the code.
Now we've done quite a bit of code changes here.
Here we go we failed on something.
Let's see what it is.
Oh this is interesting.
So we've got two things here is expecting the grabber an open door header file to be at the top.
So we do need to move those at some point I might as well do it now whilst it's fresh in mind I'm fresh
on the error here.
I've not had a fail compile in a while referencing.
Did you mean it result get actor.
OK I might.
Where is that grabber.
Line sixty nine.
Let's have a look.
In 69.
If we have a look at what happens when we type in get actor again get to is purple is a function call
on that.
So let's go ahead and make it a function call then we should be fine.
We could break it out if necessary and put it here and we can see the way that this is structured.
We could probably streamline the code to make it less lines but we risk making it unreadable if we do
that.
This is quite clear we're getting the actor that reads well regardless of whether or not we split stouts
up here and say that the hit result get actor equals an actor.
Well of course it does.
OK.
So that I think is the correction we need to make.
Let's go up to the top here and move the grabber to the top d e Gs.
Everything else is in alphabetical order so that's also good.
Let's try that again and that's compiler code Excellent.
The compiler is complete let's press play right.
Can we pick this up.
Would you look at that.
Get off me.
Okay so I've done an awful lot of the coding for you so far and what I'd like you to do is your challenge
is to go ahead and implement the release.
It's relatively straightforward you have to refer back to the docs for the function call you're going
to have to make Paul's video now and give us a go.
Okay everybody Welcome back.
Let's go ahead and we'll close down my open door implementation now let's scroll down to where we've
got the release.
Here we go.
And so we're going to do.
Remove the release hand.
So this is going to be the physics handle again arrow operator and then release component just like
in the documentation.
There isn't anything to go inside this parentheses.
If we go ahead and save that.
Okay.
So there's one final thing to do to this if statement here and it's about code consistency more than
anything else.
This will technically work at the moment even without our curly braces that we would usually put our
if statements in.
So even though it would work it would be best if we were consistent with how we put on or constructs
our if statements.
The last thing we want to do here is go ahead and have an inconsistent code style with all of our other
if statements.
It makes it more difficult to read.
And it could certainly make it more error prone if you suddenly change your mind of how you're constructing
things.
So we want to make sure that we have our curly braces in this case and I've also removed that comment.
The final thing here was both on the gravest TPP and the open doors TPP going in and changing the order
of our ash includes.
So I'm going to move grab it to the top there.
Yes I could use the ult an up arrow.
I like mixing it up and then alphabetically.
That makes sense.
Let's go over to the open door TPP double click to open it Go to the top something to move open door
C.P. to the top as well.
Here we go.
And game framework.
Player actor.
This is where slotting things in between the Olsen up arrow does make sense and engine.
Okay so I'm happy with the order there.
Everything saved.
Let's go over into unreal.
So we're gonna compile and hopefully now we can pick things up and drop them.
Now I think that box is probably a bit big but for testing purposes.
Absolutely fine.
It's just fills up a lot of our screen that so.
Okay let's press play Let's go pick up the cone.
I hope so if we hold down we pick you up and if we let go we drop it again.
How awesome is that.
Let's just come out of here and turn on the output log.
Here we go yet.
Grab a pressed hit the cone.
Then we released it and it dropped.
Let's make sure it works.
Oh I didn't mean to escape out into press F eight again but they're mine.
We're back in game it's pickup this throw over there.
Awesome let's pick up this one and throw it over there while we can have a right strop.
But how cool is this now interacting with our world.
Excellent.
Oh can we escape.
Oh no not quite.
We've not set these up yet to weigh anything so we can put them on the pressure plate but it won't be
long before we actually have that sorted.
Let's see if we can escape.
Three two one.
Go go go are so close.
I've got the timing on that.
Really well done.
OK.
So that's it for this lecture.
I'm really excited that we're now interacting with our actors in the world.
This is brilliant.
I'll see you all in the next lecture.